
Date: November 29, 2006
=======================

Life Here
---------

We are awakened at 5:30 a.m. over an intercom in our rooms. Then it's
hurry, hurry, hurry. Go to the bathroom. Get some clothes on. In the
middle of this, someone comes with your dog's food. Add water. Give it
to your dog. Elwood dives at the dish and is eating in mid air. My
instructor said I should make him sit--he'll do that, then wait to be
told he can eat when I put down the bowl. I can put down the bowl, but
then, charge!

Meanwhile, I am finishing getting dressed enough to go outside and
filling his water bowl with 3 cups of water. At this point, his input is
regulated. In the kennels, the dogs relieve whenever they feel the need.
They have been housebroken in their puppy families, but may need a
review.

Then it's off to park, often on a dead run. Elwood seems to be getting
into a better routine with his body so maybe the initial stress is
wearing off. He was a tad constipated.

Right now we are waiting for people breakfast at 7.

Today we will go on two more trips along a residential street. We've
been told we will have our first "traffic check" this afternoon--a
staff driven car will be in a driveway across the sidewalk. There will
be more of these later.

Last night we had a presentation of dog fears. Earlier, there was one on
correcting your dog. These take about an hour. We also have to groom our
dogs at least once a day. There is down time, but it is in small
increments.

Mood: happy
~~~~~~~~~~~
