Date: November 30, 2006
=======================

Subject: Harness All the Time
-----------------------------

Elwood is starting to get used to how life will be. Some lab behaviors
are popping out. For example: Elwood has a fondness for bananas. He pops
up at the breakfast table when my neighbor gets hers. Today I had one. I
had to resettle him several times during breakfast. At lunchtime, which
is really dinner, Elwood kept bouncing up because we had fried chicken
and macaroni and cheese. Settling a dog down with finger-licking-good
hands is a challenge.

A note on the food: It's good to be back in New Jersey. The hamberger
came without mayo. It was jewish style cole slaw at dinner today. The
staff is laughing at me. My instructor drives with NJ abandon. It's
good to spend some time back in my old environment.

Right now I am waiting for my instructor to come to oversee our first
trip in the house with Elwood in harness. To date, I have been heeling
him inside on just a leash. After tonight's meal, we will go everywhere
in harness except to our own lounge area since this is considered being
at home.

**Later**

Elwood is very hesitant in harness in the house. In fact, he semed to be
quite shocked that he was expected to work inside as I have been heeling
him to the door. Unfortunately, we don't have the right tention on the
harness when he walks slowly--a definite no-no. Dinner was fairly
uneventful. I did get a coffee cup with a large nose on it that stuck
out which had to make the rounds of the table to show everyone. On our
way back, we had some problems. I was focused on the route. The
instrucgtor still on hall monitor duty kept reminding me of all
Elwood's infractions and my inattention to them. Hey! I was trying to
keep track of how I was holding the handle (which is different than I
was holding it before) and keeping the tention, or at least trying to.

After we got back to our room, I took the shopping bag with Elwood's
grooming tools and we went down into the basement where the grooming
room is. (We are not allowed to groom the dogs anywhere else.) We had
some difficulty finding the room and doing the clearances right so
correct and repeat.

The grooming room has a bench running around the outside so the dogs can
stand there while you stand on the floor. There are windows to the
hallway. I stood on the bench to find the hooks for the harness. They
are at the ceiling. Elwood must have thought it was quite peculiar to be
told to sit on the floor while I climbed up. Then I called him to me and
jumped down. The bag being a nuisance, crinkly sounding and a hindrance
to hand signals, I ditched it and put the tools in my pockets for the
return journey. And yes, it's a journey! Each landing is a stop and
forward and there are two landings per staircase.

The van is high. There are several steps to get up into it. There are no
straps, no arm rests to hang onto. This morning, while I was getting up
into the back in preparation for calling Elwood to me, I slipped and
ended up sitting on the van's floor. No carpet either! The other
student and I laughed and laughed. I wasn't hurt. I was coming back
down because Elwood wasn
't sitting at rest. Each time he gets up, I
have to come back and resettle him.

We worked in pairs this afternoon. This means two students walking the
same route at the same time. We meet at the curbs and then the other one
takes the lead. We were doing okay. We were waiting for our traffic
check. The class supervisor pulled into the driveway ahead of me, bumper
scraping the ground. I jumped. Elwood remained calm, stopping. Good dog!

Mood: okay
~~~~~~~~~~
