Date: November 30, 2006
=======================

Subject: South Street Route
---------------------------

Today we started a new route. It's called the South Street Route
because it does have four blocks of South Street along the square as one
part of it. Morristown is under construction. They are adding lamp posts
in the center of the wide sidewalk. Also the department store Epstene's
is being torn down and a new development will go in there. Part of it
will be a parking garage where the Seeing Eye vans can park and a new
lounge. The lounge has places for the dog to stay and people. I can't
tell you anything about it because I've never been there. For one
reason or another it has been closed when I have trained.

Along the route today we had a traffic check. I screwed up so we had
another one--a car pulling in front of us in a driveway. We also had an
unplanned check--a quiet car came out of nowhere in front of us while
crossing a street.

We also delt with clearance issues. A barrier of cones had been set up.
Elwood had to squeeze around between them and some bushes. Later, he
went too close to some bushes so we had to rework that. We also had
numerous distractions--some planned and some not. Elwood did OK on some
and not so well on others. That goes for me, too.

We've added an extra park time for Elwood before our afternoon trip.
Relieving is a major topic of conversation here and we spend a great
deal of time concentrating on it. Tonight we began touching our dogs.

Elwood's harness has been temporarily modified so we can get a better
feel for one another. This makes a big difference when we walk together.
He pulls better and I can do my part of keeping the tention.

This afternoon Elwood thought about escaping from the van. I didn't have a tight hold on him so I dived across the back of the van to grab
him.

Today we worked without any jackets it was so warm. I understand this
will change Friday.

My massage this afternoon was very nice. She worked on my calves which
have been worked hard. I have a longer appointment Sunday afternoon.

Well 5:30 AM comes around quickly. Not only do I have to get up, I have
to feed the dog, get dressed, get harnessed up and get outside which
includes a nasty set of stairs.

My spy thriller also awaits.

Mood: exhausted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
