.. title: A Theology of Aging
.. slug: a-theology-of-aging
.. date: 2015-01-05 17:58:33 UTC-06:00
.. tags: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

   
Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia

.. CONTENTS:: Table of Contents


A Theology of Aging
-------------------

			     Spring, 1999

   I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine grower. He removes
   every branch in me that bears no fruit. Every branch that bears
   fruit he prunes to make it bear more fruit. You have already been
   cleansed by the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me as I
   abide in you. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless
   it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am
   the vine, you are the branches. Those who abide in me and I in them
   bear much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing. Whoever
   does not abide in me is thrown away like a branch and withers; such
   branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you
   abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask for whatever you wish,
   and it will be done for you. My Father is glorified by this, that
   you bear much fruit and become my disciples. As the Father has
   loved me, so I have loved you; abide in my love. If you keep my
   commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my
   Father's commandments and abide in his love.

   -- John 15:1-10   

Introduction
------------

I intend to present a theology of aging that encompasses both pastoral
ministry in congregations and retirement communities. In contemporary
American culture we focus on what people do, not who they are. When
National Public Radio calls someone to play the weekly puzzle game on
Weekend Sunday, Leanne Hanson always asks, “What do you do there in
----”. She does not ask, “Who are you?” As congregations look to their
future, they think of programs for children and youth. The Now for
these congregations is its middle-aged members. Its elders are only
thought of as the past. However, administrators and chaplains of
retirement communities know that how a person lived in their lives
prior to retirement is how they will live in their retirement. Those
who are defined by what they do will have a difficult time when they
no longer can do. Life will be emptied of its meaning. How then can a
theology of aging address this?

A Biblical Model for the Community of Faith
-------------------------------------------

In his farewell speech to his disciples in the Gospel of John, Jesus
uses the metaphor of the vine and the branches to describe
relationships in a community of faith. This is an ancient metaphor for
the people of God, going all the way back to Isaiah and eighth century
B.C.E. Judea. No metaphor is perfect, but this one suggests several
key relationships.

The Father, God, is the vine-dresser or vine grower. Growers are
interested in healthy plants that bear a great quantity of fruit.
Vines need to be fertilized, sprayed, pruned. This is not done to
punish the vine but to enable the vine to produce a good crop. The
grower is delighted when the vine indeed does produce a bumper crop.

Jesus is the vine and people are branches. The text under
consideration points out that branches cannot produce on their own.
Neither is a vine much good without branches. There is, then, an
integral relationship between vine and branch, between Jesus and
people. The vine fulfills its work by producing fruit-filled branches.

The text does not explicitly say what fruit this vine produces, only
that more is better. However, it does introduce abiding in love. Since
Jesus has already given the disciples a new commandment to love one
another as he has loved them (John 13:34-35) and he will reintroduce
this commandment in the succeeding verses, love for one another as a
sign of Christian discipleship may be inferred. This love flows from
Father to Jesus, from Jesus to disciples, from one disciple to
another. The relationship between Father and Jesus is a model for the
community and this love is the source of nourishment for it. The vine
grower ensures that the vine and its branches have the appropriate
conditions in which to flourish.

Nothing has been said to this point concerning pruning. The verb in
Greek translated prune is the same verb that is also translated
cleansed. Jesus’s word or words is responsible for the pruning itself.
Jesus gives assurance to those being addressed that they have already
undergone this process. It may be that the pruning of branches is not
directly linked to individuals, but is God’s shaping of the community.

In summary, then, Jesus instructs the disciples to abide, live, remain
in his love, love that he has from abiding with the Father. This love
defines the disciples’ purpose as being branches of the vine and
producing much fruit.

Theological Reflections
-----------------------

Admittedly, some have criticized the Gospel of John for limiting
Christian love to within the community whereas the synoptic tradition
definesthe love commandment as love of God and love of neighbor. The
parable of the good Samaritan expands the definition of neighbor to
anyone in need. However, the Johannine formulation is helpful to a
community in its very command to love members of the community as a
witness to Christian discipleship. Loving one another is to
discipleship as bearing fruit is to the branches of a vine.

Discipleship is nullified when love does not exist between members of
the community. The branch ceases to be fruitful and is removed. The
Johannine tradition further explains (in 1 John) that unless there is
love in a community, there is no love of God either .

Discipleship,
understood as the fruit-bearing life of faith in God and love of one
another, is one way of describing the Christian life. Such a life
constitutes a richly embroidered fabric of prayer, worship, study and
service to others--a balance of praise and thanksgiving to God with
deeds of kindness and justice.

Dementia and Discipleship
-------------------------

The difficulty, of course, comes when we realize that we are back to
our initial dilemma. Is our life defined by what we do, not who we
are?What of those persons in our faith communities who cannot do? I am
thinking here in particular of those persons with Alzheimer’s Disease
and other forms of dementia. For these persons, even the simplest
tasks may be overwhelming. They have lost the ability to recognize
close family members and friends. How can discipleship, understood as
fruit-bearing apply to them?

One answer, of course, is to simply say it does not, that these
persons have served God and neighbor for many years and now it is time
for their neighbors to serve them. On a daily basis, caregivers
(professional staff, family members and volunteers) assist these
persons to live comfortably and safely. The Gospel is preached and the
Sacraments are administered to them in simplified worship services;,
there are one on one visits from pastors or chaplains. Care givers
bear good fruit.

Bearing Fruit as Being, Not Doing
---------------------------------

Although Jesus’s allegory of the vine and the branches does not include a category for retired branches, (It only speaks of those branches that bear good fruit and those that do not.), is there a theological answer to this dilemma? Is there an understanding of relationship to God and to one another that makes it possible to appreciate the day-to-day life of a person with dementia as bearing good fruit? Three responses come to mind.   

1. Children are integral members of the faith community. Adults
   delight in them, work hard to prepare them for adulthood and make
   allowances for their behavioral idiosyncracies. No one suggests
   that children do not bear good fruit because they receive care
   rather than give care. Being a care receiver is as important as
   being a care giver in a community living in mutual love.

2. Whereas children are a community’s future, disciples with dementia
   are its past. Elders are persons with a history. The passing of
   individual memory does not mean that the communal memory ought to
   consign these persons to oblivion. Instead, the community remembers
   for the individual and celebrates a history of service and devotion
   to family members and faith community. These elders are the
   patterns of discipleship for the middle-aged (present) and younger
   (future) members of the community.

3. Jesus tells the disciples, “Abide in my love.” The wonder of that
   ongoing relationship was brought home to me one Sunday during
   worship. During Holy Communion, I sat next to a man in the later
   stages of dementia. He cannot speak. As the elements were
   distributed, the pianist began to play hymns. They were unfamiliar
   to me, but they were not unfamiliar to this man. He knew them and
   began to sing, not with words, but with sound. Hymn after hymn he
   sang and as I sat there, it occurred to me that his praise of God
   was as valid as mine, that his participation in worship was as full
   as mine, that his abiding in Jesus’s love was as complete as mine.
   He had shared with me an intimate moment, a revelation of the
   Christ, blossoming as the good fruit of wordless song.

Conclusion
----------

Jesus commands his disciples to bear good fruit. In the life of the
Christian community, this fruit-bearing may be seen as mutual love and
service to one another and love of God. Persons with dementia continue
to be important members of such a community, receiving care and honor
for previous devotion from others. They also continue to live in
Jesus’s love and share that love with others in surprising ways.
