.. title: Grace
.. slug: grace
.. date: 2015-08-09 15:13:49 UTC-05:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Jason and I thought it might be helpful for me to post something here
every week that relates to our Common Table worship experience. Today
I will say a little more about grace and invite you to respond with
your own observations, stories and questions.

I wasn't always a Christian. I am an adult convert. Grace was one of
those words bandied about and never defined for me. It's a word that I
use sparingly even after receiving my Master of Divinity degree. It
has always seemed to be one of those theological words that defies
definition.

The Contemporary English Version of the Bible dispenses with grace
altogether preferring to use words like kindness and kindly. To my way
of thinking, kindness waters grace down a bit. I tend to group
kindness with politeness--always good to act upon but not absolutely
crucial. We can appreciate people who are not necessarily kind or
polite.

Grace, on the other hand, is essential if we are to grasp God's
attitude toward us. God gives us everything, unreservedly, without us
earning it or even asking for it. This is more than kindness. This is
unheard of generosity.

In another biblical story, a historical ruler says to someone, "ask me
for anything up to half my kingdom." When I read this, I think, "And
God gives us the whole kingdom, everything God has."

In today's biblical story, Jesus gives the paralyzed man what he needs
to be physically whole. The man responds to this audacious gift by
picking up his own mat and walking away, praising God. I would, too,
if something similar happened to me. Even without physical healing, I
praise God frequently for the undeserved blessings that come my way
daily.

